Hash Table - Used for fast data lookup - symbol table for compilers, database indexing, caches,Unique data representation.

Trie - dictionary, such as one found on a mobile telephone for autocompletion and spell-checking.

Suffix tree - Fast "Full Text" searches used in most word processors.

Stack - Undo\Redo operation in word processors, Expression evaluation and syntax parsing, many virtual machines like JVM are stack oriented.

Queues - Acts as a Buffer for storing incoming data to be processed later

Priority queues - Process scheduling in the kernel

Trees - Parsers, Filesystem

Radix tree - IP routing table

BSP tree - 3D computer graphics

Graphs - Mostly used in social networking sites. Connections/relations in social networking sites.
         Routing ,networks of communication, data organization etc.

Heap - Sorting data elements. Dynamic memory allocation in lisp(list is a type of programming language.
       It is the second oldest high level programming language. 


To squabble about the performance of binary-trees is meaningless -
they are not a data structure, but a family of data structures, all with different performance 
characteristics. While it is true that unbalanced binary trees perform much worse than self-balancing
binary trees for searching, there are many binary trees (such as binary tries) for which "balancing" has
no meaning.

Applications of binary trees

Binary Search Tree - Used in many search applications where data is
constantly entering/leaving, such as the map and set objects in many languages' libraries.

Binary Space Partition - Used in almost every 3D video game to determine what objects need to be rendered.

Binary Tries - Used in almost every high-bandwidth router for storing router-tables.

Hash Trees - used in p2p programs and specialized image-signatures in which a hash needs to be
verified, but the whole file is not available.

Heaps - Used in implementing efficient priority-queues, which in turn are used for scheduling
processes in many operating systems, Quality-of-Service in routers, and A* (path-finding algorithm 
used in AI applications, including robotics and video games). Also used in heap-sort.

Huffman Coding Tree (Chip Uni) - used in compression algorithms, such as those used by the 
.jpeg and .mp3 file-formats.

GGM Trees - Used in cryptographic applications to generate a tree of pseudo-random numbers.

Syntax Tree - Constructed by compilers and (implicitly) calculators to parse expressions.

Treap - Randomized data structure used in wireless networking and memory allocation.

T-tree - Though most databases use some form of B-tree to store data on the drive, databases 
which keep all (most) their data in memory often use T-trees to do so.
